
New Thesis Proposal Form 
AY 2020-2021 
1. What is your research topic?
* International Law – Comparative Law – Jurisprudence on Civil Aviation conventions 
* Implementation of public policies – Challenges - Conflict of Laws

2. What is your research question?
* How does legal uncertainty on the interpretation of Civil Aviation Conventions on civil aviation (Montreal 1999 and Cape Town 2001) by domestic courts impact the effectiveness of public policy implementation in the sector?
 
3. Why would you like to explore this topic and question?
I’ve been working as a civil aviation regulation specialist since 2010. Our mission, as the Civil Aviation Authority of Brazil, is to ensure safety and excellence of civil aviation to all Brazilians.
While safety and excellence stats of Brazilian aviation are among the best in the world, ensuring aviation is accessible to all Brazilians remains a challenge. 
With a population of 209 million people, over 8.3 million km² of territorial extension and a nominal GDP of US$1.868 trillion (2019), Brazil’s potential for air transportation remains largely untapped. 
In 2019, only 104.4 million paying passengers were transported in Brazil, 95.3 million of those were flying inside Brazil. However, this represents approximately 30 million individual passengers.
While Brazil has a passenger/inhabitant ratio of 0.5, countries of similar dimensions, such as the USA and Australia hold a ratio of 3 and 5 passenger/inhabitant ratio, respectively.
In other words, the largest portion of Brazilian society still finds air transportation to be inaccessible. 
One of the challenges in amplifying the access to air transportation is the reduction of barriers to entry of new airline companies, both to amplify route supply to new destinations, as well as increase competition on routes already operated by the incumbent airlines. On that last note, it is important to remark that competition is a major factor in driving prices down, and in 2019,  23% of domestic passengers flew on routes in which only one company supplied seats. 
The scarcity in provision of air transport is also more accentuated in the Northeast and North regions of the country. On that point, civil aviation also plays a relevant role in integrating remote and sparsely populated areas, preventing these territories from becoming isolated.
Civil aviation is, for its own nature, an internationally connected sector, in which standardization of practices has been the norm from the beginning. 
In that context, International Conventions play a significant role in homogenizing the rules under which the several companies operate. The adherence to these conventions provides for more than safety in operating procedures. It provides legal certainty and predictability, necessary conditions to the economic development of any sector.
In Brazil, however, a few Civil Aviation Conventions have had little or limited effectiveness for many years, mainly due to the view hold by some Brazilian courts of the preponderance of domestic legislation over these treaties. This has been the case of the Montreal Convention, which regulates the limits of liability of air transportation companies, and, more recently, of the Cape Town Convention, that regulates International Interests in Mobile Equipment (applicable to aircraft leases).
The multitude of interpretations arising from the Brazilian Jurisprudence threatens legal certainty and poses a challenge on the implementation of public policies in the civil aviation sector. Understanding the depth of the issue can help Brazil move forward in the implementation of public policies for aviation.
4. What are the debates to which your dissertation will relate?
The dissertation will draw on legal and qualitative analysis of the comparative interpretations of Brazilian Courts and American and European courts on the domestic implementation of the Montreal and Cape Town conventions in order to assess whether there have been significant differences of understanding of the different courts on the applicability of the conventions vis a vis the (eventual) national conflicting legislation.  
Furthermore, the dissertation should evaluate whether the lack of effective implementation of the Montreal Convention has generated an adverse incentive to excessive litigation in Brazil. For example, one recent article published in Brazil suggests that the same American Air Transport Company is sued, on average, 0.01 times per 100 flights in the USA, and 79 times per 100 flights in Brazil.
Finally, as the cost of the legal uncertainty is invariably reflected on the prices of air tickets, as well as in the assessment of transaction costs in Brazil, the study should touch on how the excessive litigation and legal uncertainty could detract from the objective of increasing private investment and competition in the sector, effectively hindering the likelihood of the lower income population becoming a consumer of air transport services.

5. What is your proposed methodology?
• Qualitative
• Legal

6. What type of data do you need? 
Jurisprudence of different courts.


