

New Thesis Proposal Form 
AY 2020-2021 

1. What is your research topic?
Public Economics – Intergovernmental Relations – Federalism – Second Generation Fiscal Federalism.

2. What is your research question?
* What are the incentive effects of Brazil’s central government transfer systems on local economic outcomes?

3. Why would you like to explore this topic and question?
In my work as a public servant in Brazil,  I deal with matters closely related to fiscal federalism daily. The result from this research could potentially promote debates on improvements of tax-sharing reforms in Brazil.  

4. What are the debates to which your dissertation will relate?
First Generation Fiscal Federalism (FGFF) tends to restrict its evaluation of intergovernmental transfer systems based on equity and spillover effects. Second Generation Fiscal Federalism (SGFF) models emphasize the incentives produced by the design of transfer schemes within federal systems. In SGFF, there is an increased focus on the importance of revenue generation by subnational governments for accountability and public goods supply. 

Brazilian tax-sharing system design has an emphasis on tax collection efficiency and the reduction of revenue imbalances. Subnational governments are highly dependent on the federal government. With this research, I intend to study Brazil’s tax-sharing design in light of the SGFF framework to discuss:

* Whether the intergovernmental transfers systems generate market-fostering or distorting policies by local governments.  
* Whether increased transfers from the central government are negatively related to local government revenue generation and entrepreneurial activity.

5. What is your proposed methodology?
Fit a difference-in-difference model based on the threshold of population. 

6. What type of data do you need? 
I will use data on transfers made by the federal Brazilian government to municipalities and data on revenue generation and entrepreneurial activity. The data is  publicly available on Brazilian government websites: tesouro.gov.br, ipea.gov.br, ibge.gov.br. 

7. Who are your proposed supervisors?
* Prof. Christian Traxler;
* Prof. Simon Munzert;
* Prof. Leonardo Iacovone.
