Research Proposal			
1. What is your research topic?
Academic field: Social Policy 
Research topic: Family Policy, Health Policy, Education Policy, Social Inequality, Child Outcomes, Poverty
2. What is your research question? 
What are the effects of social inequalities on child outcomes?
What are the effects of social inequalities on child development?
What are the effects of social inequalities on child well-being?
To define the specific question the definition of "child outcomes", "child development" and child "well-being" still need to be defined.
3. Why would you like to explore this topic and question? Please let us know why you are curious about your research topic, and why you think your question(s) are worth exploring.
       I have always been interested in social policy, especially topics related to Child, Youth, and Family Policies. In the past years, I worked with public education and early childhood development in Brazil. Now, I want to expand my view beyond the education area but still analyze the current situation of marginalized children and teenagers. However, I am still not sure if this will be related to the Brazilian or an International context. 
       There are two main reasons why it is an important research topic. First, children and adolescents are the future of our society, if we start supporting vulnerable groups since the beginning of their lives, that is an investment for the future. Also, at this stage, they do not have a voice to express their needs, change their current situation, or even fight for their rights. In this sense, policymakers need to analyze carefully what is the best way to assist these children. 
       Furthermore, in Brazil, there is not enough documentation on effective family policies. For this reason, an analysis that includes Brazil is essential in this research. 
4. What are the debates to which your dissertation will relate? These debates can be theoretical, empirical, normative, related to policy, or a combination of these.
       The dissertation will be related to debates on inequalities, poverty, and social mobility. It is important to contribute to the analysis of how societies amplify inequalities by not giving opportunities for those who are more vulnerable. In this specific case, children living under social inequalities. 
       More specifically, the debate on whether the investment in social policies for people at an early age is actually better for the future of the individual and society as a whole. It is already proven that early social assistance can improve the development of a person in the future, but it is still crucial to measure the effect of social inequality in all aspects of a child's life, including health, education, behavior, and environment.
       The research will be mostly related to an empirical and policy debate. A theoretical approach will be used to describe terms that have been already defined in the literature. 

5. What is your proposed methodology?
Quantitative
6. What type of data do you need? Have you thought about data access? If your data proves to be inaccessible, have you considered a “Plan B”?
There are three options of data that could be used in the research:
1. OCDE (Family Database): cross-national indicators on the situation of families and children. 
- The downside of this option is that for a lot of variables there is missing information about Brazil. 
2. PNAD (Brazil): The National Household Sample Survey - PNAD, carried out annually, plans to produce results for Brazil, Major Regions, Federation Units, and nine Metropolitan Regions. It surveyed general characteristics of the population, education, labor, income, and housing, and, according to the information needs for the country, having the household as its unit of the survey.
- The downside of this option is that they changed the methodology of collecting data in 2016 so I probably need to decide which period to work with.
3.  Case Study (São Paulo, Brazil): A program designed by the National Institute of Science and Technology of Developmental Psychiatry for Children and Adolescents in Brazil whose objective was to develop home visits by nurses for teenage mothers living in adverse conditions. The first study was made with 80 mothers and the current one is with 200 mothers. During these visits, they collected reliable and interesting data about these mothers. It focuses on highly vulnerable teenage pregnancies and their children, beginning in the 1st trimester of pregnancy and ending at 24 months of the child's life.
- The downside of this option is that the number of people affected by the program is small 

 						
					 				
			
		

