I am Professor of Sociology at the Hertie School, having served as its President from 2009 to 2018. I also held a Chair of Sociology at Heidelberg University from 2006 to 2019, and served as founding Academic Director of the Heidelberg Centre for Social Investment. 
I received my MA, MPhil and PhD degrees from Yale University, was a senior researcher at the 
Johns Hopkins University’s Institute for Policy Studies, Professor of Public Policy and Social 
Welfare at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Luskin School of Public Affairs, Centennial Professor at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), and Professor of Sociology at Rutgers University. 
Before embarking on an academic career, I was a staff member (Social Affairs Officer) with the United Nations. 
 
My research centres on non-profit organizations, civil society, social innovation, culture, philanthropy, institutional and organisational studies, governance, and indicator systems. 
For almost a decade, I was the principal academic lead of the Hertie School's annual Governance Report (Oxford University Press), and the Academic Co-Director of the Dahrendorf Forum, a joint initiative by the Hertie School and the London School of Economics and Political Science. 
I recently started a new international, interdisciplinary journal “Global Perspectives.” 
I have applied a wide range of different qualitative and quantitative methods, tools, and approaches. These include Research design, case selection, cases studies, comparative analysis, institutional analysis, policy analysis, historical analysis, expert interviews, document analysis, multivariate analysis, indicator models, and network analysis, among others. 

The colloquium adopts a modular approach, meaning that we will cover core elements of a thesis step-by-step (e.g., thesis proposal, literature review, theoretical framework, research design, hypotheses, methods, data collection and empirical analysis, policy implications and recommendations). I supervise individual and team projects. 
 
Please note that I will be at UCLA from January to mid-March and from April to end of May 2021. I will be available via email, though. 
 
Adaptation to China’s Changing Nonprofit Legal & Regulatory Framework: A Case Study of German Foundations Active in China 
 
 

The following texts are general readings material relevant for all advisees: 
The following texts are general readings material relevant for all advisees. We will not go over these in class but you should consult them as we go along. I will introduce aspects of methodology, research design, and various types of analysis on an as need basis. 
 
Hancké, B. (2009). Intelligent Research Design, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
 
Marshall, C. & Rossman, G. B. (2011) Designing Qualitative Research, Los Angeles, SAGE. 
 
Creswell, C. W. (2009) Research Design. Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches, Los Angeles, SAGE. 
 
Gerring, J. (2012) Social Science Methodology: A Unified Framework, 2nd Ed., New York: Cambridge University Press. 
 
King, Gary, Robert Keohane, and Sidney Verba (1994) Designing Social Inquiry: Scientific Inference in Qualitative Research. Princeton: Princeton University Press. 
 
 	 
Proposed Projects: (if applicable)  
I am very open when it comes to topics and approaches. It is best if you contact me prior to the first session just to make sure that I have the necessary background and expertise to be of best service to you. 

	 	

