My research fields are international law, human rights (law), and European human rights law. I am interested in studying questions concerning the interpretation of  international law, dynamics of international law making and treaty design, interactions between different regimes in international law, such as laws of armed conflict and human rights, human rights and trade/investment regimes, human rights and environmental law, the relationship between international law and international politics, and the role of international law (and human rights law) in constituting, shaping, constraining or adjusting political preferences, discourses and outcomes domestically, regionally or globally. I am also interested in compliance with and  backlash against international law and institutions. 

My current research focuses on the role of the UN and the European Human Rights regimes in protecting human rights, the place of human rights in trade, investment and environmental law regimes and the interactions between international law and domestic courts .  



I am trained in legal, comparative and qualitative empirical methods. I am happy to supervise students who would like to employ legal research methods, such as comparative case law analysis. I am equally interested in supervising interdisciplinary theses that are interested in the interactions between international law and international relations, international regime design, law in action and socio-legal  research. 

I am happy to provide detailed feedback on the feasibility of your research question, the potential contribution of your proposed study to the identified field/literature, the appropriateness of the methods you employ, your detailed thesis outline, your central argument, your introduction, including your methodology section. 

I do not read full drafts before submission. I am happy to supervise students in groups. 




























Exporting Human Rights: The Inclusions of Indigenous Rights in Foreign Trade 
Agreements of the European Union. (2020) 
What are the International Regulatory Challenges and Opportunities of Military 
Use of Emerging Biotechnologies? (2020) 
Advancing Gender Equality through Transitional Justice. A case study of 
Sweden’s Feminist Foreign Policy. (2020) 
Is the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) Appropriately 
Designed to Combat Global Corruption? (2020)  
Taking TRIPS to Court: Brazil, India and China’s Contestation of the International 
Intellectual Property Regime (2019) 
Using and Reviewing the WTO Security Exceptions (2019) 
Gender mainstreaming in the private military and security industry – a practical approach (2019) 
The BRICS and BITs: Moving Towards a Common Policy Position? (2018) 
An Opportunity for Trans-Regionalism? MERCOSUR and the Phenomenon of 
Mass Immigration in Chile (2018) 
Are You Listening? Understanding Disparities in the Co-Governance of Risk for 
Local Humanitarian Partners in Syria (2018) 
Towards Reconciliation: Prospects for an accountable Amnesty in Venezuela 
(2018) 
Think or Swim: The Unique Challenge of Climate-Induced Displacement from 
Small Island Developing States (2018) 
“Mind the Gap!”: The Civil Accountability Gap in UN Peacekeeping Operations and the Right to Remedial Redress (2017) 
The European Court of Human Rights and Forced Displacement in the Nagorno-
Karabakh Conflict: Paving the Way Towards a Peaceful Settlement? (2017) 
"The End of the Beginning”?: A Critical Review of the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights' Normative Foundations and Its Implications (2017) 
Climate Change Induced Displacement: A Catalyst for Rethinking the Ways in 
Which International Law Governs Migration (2017) 
 

Project Title 	Practice Partner (if applicable) 
Implementation of the judgments of the European Court of 
Human Rights  	European Implementation Network  
 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

 	 

 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

