
 Professor of… 	Public Administration 
  

I am a political scientist who focuses on public management, comparative public policy and development studies. I have specific expertise in Latin America and EU countries, but I particularly value global and universal approaches. Topic-wise, my focus and special interests lie in the areas of digital governance, public sector innovation, inclusive governance, and institution-building. 
 

I have a specific interest in the following topics: state capacity building, bureaucratic autonomy, agencification, user-centred public service delivery, transparency, co-production and innovation.  
You will find below a list of topic areas that are currently part of my research agenda.  

I can supervise students interested in both qualitative and quantitative methodologies, but generally have a preference for quantitative (statistical) and/or comparative case analyses.  
 
 
 
 
My supervision will be composed of a set of meetings where we calibrate the basics of master’s research and that should serve all students rather uniformly, and a second part where the meetings are more personalized and adaptive to the needs and progress of each student. 
 

Change management in the public sector in Brazil and Europe; 
Italy’s role and progress in the Open Government Partnership; 
Citizen coproduction initiatives in Iceland; 
Open Data and Open Government in Mexican local governments; 
AI ecosystems in the European Union 
Comparative smart-city governance; 
Remote sensing for disaster prevention in fragile contexts 
 
Crowdsourcing for policy in the public sector. Under which conditions does it add public value? 	 
Which organizational capacity building approaches lead to better results in different contexts? 	 
How do emerging digital technologies contribute to problem solving capabilities in the public sector? 	 
What are the equality / distributional concerns of digital governance? 	 
How is diversity being integrated in public management rules and practices? 	

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

