Professor of… 	Fundamental Rights  
  
I am a legal scholar, and most of my work is doctrinal legal work, or normative work criticising legal structures and doctrines from within, or from an external point of view.  I also lead an interdisciplinary project (RefMig – an ERC funded individual project), with a comparative qualitative element.     I also supervise work that is law-in-context, using various empirical (usually qualitative empirical) methods to examine legal practices and processes.  Substantively, I focus on refugee and migration law, in a broad sense, examining international and European norms in particular, and also state practices globally in this domain.   I also work on the intersection between migration and labour law, including questions on the right to work and forced labour in the context of migration law and governance.  
 
I have a particular expertise on EU laws and practices, although these days I prefer to aim for a global approach to asylum and migration issues, and aim to avoid eurocentrism.    In the past, I have supervised doctoral and masters’ studies in my previous role (at the Refugee Studies Centre and Faculty of Law, University of Oxford) on gender discrimination in migration law, the rights of the child in migration law, climate related displacement, procedural justice in asylum and migration, ‘humanitarian smuggling’ and a host of other issues.    
 
Doctrinal legal research; comparative qualitative empirical research; law-in-context approaches. 
 
I work closely with students to hone clear tractable research questions, provide readings and develop the clarity and cogency of their scholarly writing and argumentation. 
 

Doctoral and MPhil studies - The Legal Construction of Migrant Work Relations: Precarious Status, Hyper-Dependence and Hyper-Precarity  
Human Rights Law and the Problem of War Refugees (completed, distinction awarded) 
An Appeal to Principle: Access to Justice from Migration Status Decisions  
Migrant Status and Violence Against Women MT19 
Children and Asylum: A New Take on Fragmentation of International Law, HT20 Climate Refugees  
The Right to Leave and Exterritorial Migration Control  
MSc in Refugee and Forced Migration Studies Dissertation Supervision 
As part of the MSc in Refugee and Forced Migration Studies course, I supervised c. 5 Master’s dissertations each year from 2003-2019.  To give a small sample of their subject matter range and quality, these include dissertations by Chelsea Bin Han (on smuggling and exclusion of refugees - awarded as the British Association for Canadian Studies Essay Prize, as the best essay among Masters’ thesis on Canadian studies, available at https://www.rsc.ox.ac.uk/publications/smuggledmigrant-or-migrant-smuggler); Minos Mouzourakis (on the Dublin System, available at https://www.rsc.ox.ac.uk/files/files-1/wp105-we-need-to-talk-about-dublin.pdf); and Rachel Landry (on humanitarian smuggling - https://www.rsc.ox.ac.uk/publications/the-humanitariansmuggling-of-refugees-criminal-offence-or-moral-obligation).  

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

