

Professor of… 	European Law & Governance 



Mark Dawson is Professor of European Law and Governance at the Hertie School. His research focuses on the relationship between law and policymaking in the EU, particularly in the fields of economic governance and human rights protection. Dawson was previously an Assistant Professor at Maastricht University. He has held visiting positions at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), the University of Wisconsin and Harvard Kennedy School. Dawson holds degrees from the Universities of Edinburgh and Aberdeen as well as a PhD from the European University Institute in Florence, where he was in 2019 Fernand Braudel Fellow. He is currently a member of the Editorial Board of the European Law Review and of the Advisory Board of the Maastricht Journal of European & Comparative Law. He is the Principle Investigator of LEVIATHAN, a research project exploring the legal and political accountability structure of EU economic governance. LEVIATHAN is supported by a Starting Grant of the European Research Council. 

My general field is law, and more particularly, the law of the European Union. I am, however, a generalist and so am interested in projects that either carry an EU or European dimension of some kind (including projects that are primarily about EU institutions, politics or policies) or carry a legal, regulatory or human rights dimension (whether EU related or not). 


Typical fields in which I have or would like to supervise projects include: 
EU law e.g. the European Courts, the influence of EU law on policy-making, the rule of law 
EU economic governance e.g. projects focusing on EMU policies, including EMU’s accountability dimension (in this context, I lead a large research project based at Hertie (see https://www.hertie-school.org/en/leviathan) 

EU social law & policy 
EU governance and institutions, including democracy and participation in Europe 
Human rights law and policy 
International Courts and Tribunals, their influence and legitimacy 
Comparative law e.g. comparisons between legal and regulatory regimes, including between regions 
Legal and regulatory dimensions to the Covid-19 response 


Largely, I work with qualitative, comparative and/or legal methods 



• 
US and German Approaches to Competition Enforcement in the Digital Sector 
Fiscal Rules in the Eurozone 

• 
Judicial Accountability: A Cross-Country Comparison 
Family Re-unification in Europe following the Refugee Crisis 

• 
Protecting Human Rights in International Trade Agreements 
• 
Participative Experiments in European Political Parties 
 
 
 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

