Professor of Sustainability 

I am an interdisciplinary social scientist working on climate, energy and sustainability policy and governance. I preferably supervise theses in these topic areas. The closer your topic is to my research interest, the better my supervision will be. If your topic is only remotely connected to my fields of expertise, I will be able to grade your thesis, but I won’t be able to support you in a meaningful way. Please have a look at my publications to get an impression of the type of work I do. 

Institutional analysis and design of climate policy instrument mixes, in particular carbon pricing systems (taxes, emissions trading systems) and institutions for climate governance  
Political economy of climate and energy policy, in particular theoretical frameworks for the political economy of energy transitions, policy sequencing, public opinion and climate/sustainability policy, norms, formation of policy coalitions;  
The role of discourse and narratives in climate and energy policy, in particular in the German Energiewende;  
International climate policy, in particular EU climate and energy policy, the UNFCCC regime, international flexibility mechanisms, and international climate finance; and 
Science-policy interface, both in the context of Global Environmental Assessments such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) or the UNEP Global Environment Outlook (GEO), and the national climate advisory bodies such as the UK Committee on 
Climate Change.  



I mainly employ qualitative methods but often engage in quantitative projects in collaboration with other researchers specialized in the respective methods. I routinely work in interdisciplinary projects with economists, political scientists, lawyers, and philosophers. I often employ an institutional economics analysis and design perspective, but also engage in theory development and use interviews, text coding, and interpretive approaches such as discourse analysis.  
I supervise theses using qualitative methods, and theses employing quantitative approaches if these involve cooperation with practice partners specialized in and substantively supporting work with the respective method.  

Practice partners  

I strongly encourage students to work with practice partners. I have made very good experiences 
e.g. with collaborations with researchers at the MCC, but there are other good options such as the HEEN network. Please clarify and confirm the cooperation possibility with the practice partner before submitting your thesis proposal. 

We will meet in six sessions during the supervision process. Each session represents a milestone for which you will be asked to provide certain assignments (see below). Most sessions will be collective colloquium sessions, some feature individual meetings.  
The supervision takes place during these sessions. Additional feedback during office hours or by email will be given on very specific questions, more general feedback will be given only in exceptional circumstances. I will read and comment your assignments and your presentations during the colloquium sessions. I never read drafts; when I read your thesis, I am reading it to grade it. I strongly encourage students to work in pairs. 

The Political Economy of Coal in Bulgaria: The Captured Energy Transition 
Unveiling the Political Economy of Coal in Colombia. An analysis of entrenchment mechanisms, strategies, and lock-in  
The Climate Policy Agenda of Right-Wing Parties - Examining the Alternative for Germany (AfD) and Freiheitliche Partei Österreichs (FPÖ)  
Germany’s Coal Commission - Complementing Democracy or Bypassing it? 
Punching Above Their Weight? Small Island States in the Negotiations of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
Obstacles and Response Options to Keeping Temperature Increase Below 2°C: a Survey of Expert Perceptions. (Practice partner MCC)  
Protecting Indonesia’s forests. Does it matter who manages the land? (Practice partner MCC)  
Horizontal Distributional Effects of Carbon Pricing Policies in Germany. A Micro-Simulation Approach. (Practice partner MCC)  
Geddes, Barbara. 2003. Paradigms and Sand Castles: Theory Building and Research Design in Comparative Politics. University of Michigan Press 


Proposed Projects 
Project Title 	Practice Partner (if applicable) 
The politics of the German climate policy package in 2019 	 
The emergence of the German hydrogen strategy 	 
Climate discourse analysis using parliamentary data and/or news media 	 
Border Carbon Adjustments to enable ambitious climate policy 	 
Industry expectations on emission neutrality 	 
A systematic review of literature on climate policy mixes 	 
Ex post analysis of EU ETS price projections. 	Michael Pahle (PIK) 
	
	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

