
Professor of… 	 International Security



We are open to a broad range of topics. Typically these fall into the following areas: 
International security 
International relations 
International affairs 







Our expertise includes the following: 
Armed conflict (interstate conflict, civil war, etc.) 
Authoritarianism  
Cyber security and conflict 
Defense policy 
Diffusion processes 
Digitalization, social media, and contentious politics 
Diplomacy 
Ethnicity and ethnic conflict 
Foreign Policy Analysis 
Grand strategy 
Human rights  
Military interventions 
Migration (irregular migration, refugees, etc.) 
Nuclear security 
Peace processes 
Peacekeeping 
Political Economy of developing countries 
Political violence 
Security 
Terrorism 

We supervise systematic (positivist) and empirical work. We do not supervise purely normative question (unless these are approached through a non-normative lens). We encourage students to do quantitative work. However, there are many questions that do not lend themselves to quantitative analysis, and we are above all interested in you finding the best research design for your research question, be it quantitative, qualitative, or mixed methods. We are happy to supervise work that is related our own expertise that includes an empirical research design and analysis. If you work with (quantitative) data in your thesis, you are free to work with R, Stata, or other software of your choosing. We am happy to give you advice on programming languages. Please note that we will not be de-bugging your code. 


We are happy to supervise all thesis projects that either directly or indirectly relate to our own expertise and research interests. 
We believe that identifying a suitable research question is an important part of writing a thesis, and we will teach you how what a suitable research question looks like, how you can find one, and how you can narrow it down a manageable and meaningful topic. We will not provide a fixed list of questions.  
We strongly support team work! Team work is particularly valuable in any sort of datadriven work. Please indicate whether you are willing to work with a co-author. Note that you do not have to have someone in mind when submitting your proposal.   
Supervision will occur in form of the Colloquium and students can expect each session to look a bit different. Sessions  1-3 will jointly be held by Professors Henke, Gohdes, and Wucherpfennig.  This will give you optimal and detailed input from three supervisors.  
At the end of the Fall Semester 2020, we will determine the first supervisor for your thesis. Given that both research questions, topics, and research design tend to change quite heavily over the first few months of working on them, this process ensures you will be supervised by the professor who most fits your topic and empirical approach.   
We will provide detailed feedback to shape and refine students’ research ideas. In general, however, we will not provide you with any data. We am happy to direct you to data sources that we know of, and suggest ideas for you to obtain new data. But if you decide to gather new data, it will be an integral part of your thesis.   
We am happy to give you detailed feedback on the structure of your thesis. I will, however, not pre-read any text drafts. 


Kellstedt, Paul M. and Guy D. Whitten, The Fundamentals of Political Science Research. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2013.  
Powner, Leanne C., Empirical Research and Writing. A Political Science Student’s Practical Guide. Thousand Oaks: QC Press/Sage, 2015.  

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

