Professor of… 	Assistant Professor of Educational Governance 



Lukas Graf is Assistant Professor of Educational Governance at the Hertie School. His research combines comparative, institutional and organisational approaches to analyse current questions of educational governance and labour markets, as well as of social inequality and change. He is also a member of the Leading House “Governance in Vocational and Professional Education and Training” – an international research cluster on the governance and inclusiveness of skill formation in Austria, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. 


I am Assistant Professor of Educational Governance at the Hertie School since fall 2017. At the nexus of political economy and sociology, my research combines comparative and historical institutional and organizational approaches to analyse current policy and governance challenges, as well as questions of social inequality, in Europe and beyond.  
Here are some keywords related to my academic field: political economy, sociology, comparative education, comparative capitalism, welfare states, education and training, labour markets, industrial relations, collective action, comparative analysis, institutions, organizations, institutional change, social inequality, knowledge societies, policy transfer, internationalization, Europeanization and globalization. 


I am currently working on research projects in the fields of education, labour markets, and employment relations, among others. You are encouraged to approach these or related topics, for instance, through comparative analysis of two or more (e.g. country) cases and considering multiactor or multi-level aspects. However, I am also open to other topics and approaches. Here are examples of projects on which I am currently working:  
Institutional change and reform policies in education and training systems 
The European governance model for training and employment 
Governance in multi-actor and multi-level systems of skill formation 
Governing inclusiveness measures in education systems and labour markets 
New forms of governance in the knowledge and service economy 
•	Stakeholder capacity in education and training in international comparison • 	The internationalization and transfer of educational policies You can find further information on the following websites: 
www.hertie-school.org/graf 
www.hertie-school.org/en/research/faculty-and-researchers/educational-governance-team 


Case selection, cases studies, qualitative research designs, comparative analysis, institutional analysis, organizational analysis, policy analysis, process analysis, historical analysis, expert interviews, document analysis, among others. 

The main point of contact is our colloquium. The colloquium adopts a modular approach, meaning that we will cover different key elements of a thesis step-by-step in our colloquium sessions (e.g., thesis proposal, literature review, theoretical framework, hypothesis formulation (if applicable), methods, data collection and empirical analysis). I supervise individual and team projects.  



Exploring the Strategies of Change Agents in Educational Reform. 
• 	From 	Competition 	to 	Curriculum: 	Placing 	the 	European 	Universities 	Initiative 	in Europeanization Discourse 
The policy transfer process of the German Dual Model to the Mexican Vocational Education System 
A Comparative Case Study of Education Policy to Integrate Students with a Migrant Background at the Supranational, National and Regional Levels of Government 
Being an Employer of Choice for Generation Y – An Analysis of Employer Attractiveness. 
Distribution of Decision-making Power in Higher Education: The German versus the American Model and Lessons for Vietnam. 
Ethiopia’s Representation Gap – Strategies to Increase the Collective Bargaining Agreement Coverage of Ethiopian Workers. 
Explaining Civil Society Organizations’ Involvement in Regional Educational Landscapes. 
Free Schools: A Study of Policy Borrowing in England and Sweden. 
Institutional Transformation in Corporatist Systems: Analysing the Path Evasion of Vocational Education and Training in Germany. 
The Platform Economy across Welfare State Regimes – Working Conditions of Food Couriers in Sweden, Germany, and the UK. 
Us and them – Mapping Discourse Coalitions in the EU Copyright Directive Debate. 
Inequity in Employment: An Exploratory Case Study on Albania. 



Hancké, B. (2009). Intelligent Research Design, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
Marshall, C. & Rossman, G. B. (2011) Designing Qualitative Research, Los Angeles, SAGE. 
• 
Creswell, C. W. (2009) Research Design. Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches, Los Angeles, SAGE. 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

