Professor of… 	Public Management and Political Economy 
  
Mark Hallerberg is Professor of Public Management and Political Economy. His research covers fiscal governance, fiscal institutions, and policy responses to financial crises. He has recently written on public innovation labs and has done several interviews at labs in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Denmark, Finland, Germany, and Uruguay. 
 
This thesis colloquium will focus on the evaluation of public innovation labs. This is a real policy problem. Public innovation labs are relatively new in most countries (though there are related precedents that go back decades). They often employ different methods than are common in the public sector, such as design thinking, behavioural economics, and co-creation with citizens. There are existing ways that governments evaluate policies. National audit courts focus on value for money. National evaluation agencies may focus on results that are not strictly financial. Labs themselves struggle with the question about how their work should be evaluated. They report different numbers from different types of activities. But they complain that the standard evaluators do not “get” innovation or how to evaluate it. 
 
See below on the details, though both qualitative and quantitative social science methods possible. 
 
I expect thesis students to work in teams of two people. Each team will write a true monitoring and evaluation report on a specific public innovation lab. The initial sessions will focus on how to write a monitoring and evaluation report. We will also discuss what public innovations lab do. Important—this means that you will do more guided reading than in most thesis colloquia. The idea of this reading is for you to learn about evaluation, and about how labs work. I will then pair you with specific innovation labs. Those will be based in Latin America, Europe, and/or the US. You will then write a monitoring and evaluation report on a specific project that a given lab is doing/has done. Ideally, you will then share your reports with your policy partners. 
I will also take students who want to write on other topics, but I cannot offer the same level of support. In this case, I will serve primarily as a grader of the thesis. These students should be highly motivated and should know what they want to do already. They should also know what methodology they plan to employ. In this case (only), I would accept single author theses and not joint theses. Note that grades for single authored theses are usually, on average, four percentage points lower than joint theses. The reason is simple—co-written work is, on average, more likely to be complete, proof-read, and include more empirical material than a single authored thesis. 
 


Note that this thesis colloquium combines elements of two project courses I have co-taught in the past, one on public innovation labs and one on monitoring and evaluation. It is not possible that any one student had both classes. However, some of the readings intentionally overlap, and students who had those classes with be familiar with the methods and themes. At the same time, if you have not had this material, you will have an opportunity to learn it. 
 
Required (preliminary list—more coming):  
 
Tõnurist, Piret, Rainer Kattel and Veiko Lember 2017. “Innovation labs in  the public sector: what they are and what they do?” Public Management  Review, DOI: 10.1080/14719037.2017.1287939. pp. 1-25. 
 
Dassen, Nicolás, and Sebastián Acevedo. 2016. “Innovation for Better  Management: The Contribution of Public Innovation Labs.” TECHNICAL  NOTE Nº IDB-TN-1101. Inter-American Development Bank. 
 
The Goldilocks Challenge: Right Fit Evidence for the Social Sector, by Mary Kay Gugerty and Dean Karlan, Oxford University Press. 2018. 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 



	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

