Professor of… 	Public and Financial Management 

My academic field of public management covers all aspects of managing public sector organisations (e.g. strategic management, digitalization/e-government, performance management, budget management, personnel management, innovation management) and especially the adoption/implementation of public administration reforms in order to improve public administration capacity and performance. 


My specific areas of expertise and current research are on comparative public administration, public administration reform, digital/e-government, public sector innovation, public sector motivation and personnel management, performance management and collaborative management/leadership in the public sector. 
As director of the Digital Governance Centre I am especially interested to supervise topics related to the impact of digitalization on specific government organisations but also the public sector in general. This specifically relates to the following broader topics: 
Digital government: the impact of digitalization on public management and public administration reform; this includes topics such as digital governance, digital transformation, smart cities, digitalisation strategies, digital leadership and developing digital capacity which are of relevance for the Hertie School Digital Governance Centre. 
Public sector innovation and collaborative arrangements of policy making and service delivery (see also http://tropico-project.eu/) 

In case of convincing suggestions I also would be open for thesis topics in the broader field of public management (e.g. strategic management, performance management, human resource management etc. for public administration/government organizations) and public administration reform (e.g. transparency and accountability, service delivery, structures and processes, HRM/civil service systems). 
Both qualitative (interview- or case study based) and quantitative research. With regard to the latter my expertise is mostly on survey research and rather established forms of methods/analyses such as various forms of regression analysis or SEM. 
For me the initial phase till the development of the thesis proposal is crucial and I prefer to arrange 2-3 individual meetings (onsite or offsite) to discuss and support this based on a first sketch mailed by the student. 
I do not read drafts; when I read your thesis, I am reading it to grade it. I however will also be available outside the colloquium for questions and advice based on individual appointments (online or in my office). 
These individual meetings will be offered in addition to the colloquium sessions which aim to address more generic aspects and to allow a peer-learning among the students. 
I prefer single thesis topics, but I am also open for co-authored theses if you can clearly argue the rationale and benefit of doing it together with a colleague. 

Project Title 	Practice Partner (if applicable) 
Government and private sector collaboration in the context of Smart City implementation 	KPMG Institut für den öffentlichen Sektor 
Collaboration of Start-ups and government in the context of digitalization 	KPMG Institut für den öffentlichen Sektor 
Examples of Previously Supervised Thesis Topics: (if applicable) 
The Inclusive (Smart) City: Can the inclusiveness rhetoric transform the smart city? 
The Untapped Potential of Data: How Germany’s Local Public Administration can make better use of their data 
Fostering Innovation in government organizations: the role of Talent Management - An outlook from Colombia 
The Digital Refeudalization: Modern Internet Regulation Modelsand the Deterioration of the Digital Public Sphere 
Active Citizenry in Singapore: Investigating the Influence of Digital Participation Tools 
Artificial Intelligence in the German Public Administration: Challenges in Building Administrative Capacity 
The State of GovTech in Germany: Scope, Actors, and Challenges 
What does it take for change management to succeed in the Public Sector? 
Smart Partnerships: Innovative Approaches to Public-Private Partnerships in Smart Mobility 

Sandra van Thiel (2014): Research Methods in Public Administration and Management: An Introduction, London: Routledge. 

Proposed Projects: (if applicable) 

How Governments can compete for digital/data experts: International Initiatives and Experiences 	 
AI in Government: International experiences and analysis of use cases 	 
Government strategies/approaches to build up data/AI/digitalisation capacity in government: 
international comparative perspective 	 
Government approaches to foster the convergence of digitalisation and sustainability 	 
Managing IT projects: learning from failures 	 
The Impact of Covid-19 on government digitalisation 	 
	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021 	1 
 

 

	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021 	1 
 

