Professor of… 	Public Administration and Management 

My general academic field is public administration, public management and public policy.  




My research focusses on politico-administrative relations, public sector change dynamics and comparative public administration. I am interested in structures and processes of government coordination, decision-making and policy formulation, the organization and dynamics of policy advice and the governance of wicked problems and public sector digitalization both with a focus on single country cases and in a comparative perspective. I am very happy to supervise topics in these areas and I highly encourage students to develop their own research question and design. 





I supervise projects with a qualitative designs and mixed methods and cover the collection and analysis of qualitative data such as interviews in my colloquium.  



I will meet students inside and outside the colloquium. I expect regular and active participation in the colloquium. Besides advisees are welcome to contact me for individual appointments. I am happy to provide comments on thesis outlines, research questions and designs as well as table of contents, i.e. the overall approach and structure of the thesis. 


“Coordination of EU circular economy policy in transnational city networks: Insights from 
EUROCITIES”; 
“The effect of government fragmentation on broadband diffusion in OECD countries”; 
“The mines and energy sector of Colombia: Coordination in the auction for long-term renewable energy contracts”; 
“Dual Leadership Models in German Federal Ministries”; 
The roles of Delivery Units in the Brazilian local level - The Experience of the Municipality of Jundiaí (2017-2020);  

• 
“What Factors Have Shaped the Policy Designs of the Conflict-Ridden Policy Problem of 
Climate Change in the US? A Comparative-Historical Analysis of US Climate Change Policy 
Since 1992”; 
“Innovative Public Private Partnership for Marine Conservation: Case Study of an Entrepreneurial Marine Protected Area in the Dominican Republic”. 
The following texts are general readings material relevant for all advisees: 

Bell, Judith/Waters, Stephen (2018): Doing your research project. A guide for first-time researchers. Seventh Edition. McGraw-Hill Education. 

Flick, Uwe (2015): Introducing research methodology. Los Angeles et al: Sage. 

Proposed Projects: (if applicable)  
Project Title 	Practice Partner (if applicable) 
Coordinating digitalisation in government  	 
Government organisation in and for the digital age  	 
Case studies on the use of knowledge/advice in bureaucracy  	 
The role of political advisors (impact, accountability, scandals, demographics) 	 
Changing politico-administrative relations (causes and consequences) 	 
Case studies on governance mechanisms for selected wicked problems  	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

