Professor of… 	Economics 

I am applied micro-economist with a special focus on development economics. I have worked and I am interested in various topics such as trade, productivity, firms, entrepreneurship, exports, FDI, youth employment, and industrial development. Furthermore, I am especially interested in impact evaluations of policies and programs.  


In terms of topics, my main research interests are in the area of development economics, trade, policies for private sector, firms dynamics, innovation, entrepreneurships, RCT (randomized control trials), youth employment or more broadly labor economics.  

When thinking of empirical work it is important that you try to address a relevant policy question. For this reason, it is important to ask yourself the following questions  

What is the policy change or the reform that I am going to assess?  
What data I could use for this?  
Would I have data for units (e.g. individuals, households, firms, regions, sectors, etc.) that are affected by the policy and units that are not affected by the policy change to assess the effect of this policy/change?  
Given my background and expertise I have a strong comparative advantage in empirical work so I am keen to focus on supervising empirical work as priority. So in this light it would be important to  
think about your research question in terms of what is the empirical question (policy relevant) that you’d like to address  
what data you’d like to use  
- 
what methodology will you use  

Given that empirical work can be complex and very intensive I encourage students to think about working in teams for these empirical theses.  

I won’t read drafts of the paper because I assume that the substance of your work will be in the presentation (see below requirements for the colloquia) but you can ask me to review some specific parts such as empirical parts (i.e. tables, etc.)  
Effect of robots (or ICT) in developing countries  
Assessing the impact of structural reforms in Mexico  	 
Impact of program to promote formalization in Mexico (Crezcamos juntos)  	 
Understanding FDI Surges in developing countries  	 
The impact of a tweet (assessing impact of Trump’s tweet on Mexico’s companies)  	 
Promoting innovation and productivity catch-up in backward regions in Europe  	 
Th effect of external shocks such as trade or robotization on political and voting decisions 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 



	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

