Professor of… 	European and Global Governance 


I am a political scientist with a background in international relations and a strong interest in law and institutions. My empirical focus is the European Union. I am a generalist interested in a diverse range of topics such as power sharing in the EU, politicization, democracy, internet governance, the integration of core state powers, or the changing institutional setup of the EU. My strength is to know a lot about a variety of topics and to link them rather than to know everything about a particular issue. 

I am most interested in three EU related areas: internet governance, the integration of core state powers and, importantly, how to organize solidarity in the EU. I am the director of the Jacques Delors Centre (https://www.delorscentre.eu/en/) and currently involved in two research projects as a PI (principal investigator: Internet Interfaces (https://www.hertie-school.org/en/delorsberlin/internet-interfaces/) and Integrating diversity in the EU, workpackage on core state powers (https://www.hertie-school.org/en/delors-berlin/indiveu/). Thesis proposals related to these topics and projects are most welcome. I am happy to discuss topics in advance in order to make them feasible. 

Qualitative methods including process tracing. I strongly encourage comparison. 




The 2015 refugee crisis in Italy and the consequences of the absence of solidarity in the European Union  
The Political Economy of Economic and Monetary Union Reform 
The European Union in International Trade: Normative Power Aspirations and Strategic Market Interests. 
Analysing the EUAM: an Evaluation of EU Security Sector Reform in Ukraine 
The Eurosceptic misfit. Popular Euroscepticism and electoral support for Eurosceptic parties 
Preparing for the next generation of warfare. A Classification of Cybersecurity Strategies from the European Union, North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the United States of America 
Motor or Brake Block of the Digital Transformation? The Impact of Franco-German Cooperation in Digital Policies on the EU 
• 
Culture, competition and commitment. Assessing challenges to the European Union’s comprehensive approach and civil-military cooperation in crisis management missions. 


	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 



	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

