Professor of… 	Applied Methods and Comparative Politics 

teaches applied quantitative methods and comparative politics at the Hertie School in Berlin. His core research interests address the economic underpinnings of democracy, including populism, and the effect of electoral competition — both in elections and in coalition governments — on policy-making. He previously was an assistant professor of political science at the University of Rochester, a Postdoctoral Prize Research Fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford and a fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University. He is the co-author of a book on the effect of electoral systems on regulation and price levels (Cambridge University Press, 2011) and the author or co-author of articles in the American Political Science Review, American Journal of Political Science, Political Analysis and other leading journals. He is a former recipient of the GESIS/Klingemann research award and former Senior Editor for Comparative Political Economy of the Oxford Research Encyclopdia. He currently serves on several advisory and editorial boards. 

research generally centers on the economic underpinnings of democracy with a particular focus on elections, voter behavior, parties, and political economy.  Questions about how well governments represent interests – and whose interests – and the extent of electoral accountability in democracies motivate much of his research. Current major projects focus on partisan responses to economic crisis, the electoral effects of media reporting of the economy, social mobility, populism, and the effect of electoral competitiveness on government responsiveness.  View his research at www.mark-kayser.com to get a better idea of his interests. 

Preferred methodology:  observational or experimental statistics. 

My role is to guide, but not co-author, your research.  As such, I am happy to discuss outlines and colloquium presentations but I do not read drafts. Substantively, I believe that a thesis should include a thesis (really!). A surprising number of theses might more accurately be called topics.  A thesis is a statement about a causal relationship or a normative argument.  In the case of the former, you will be arguing that X causes Y and persuading your audience through careful research design, systematic (often logical and deductive) argumentation and empirical tests in an attempt to create knowledge.  This can be a rewarding experience.  I expect my supervisees to write a thesis, not a “topic.” 

Examples of Previously Supervised Thesis Topics: (if applicable) 
Polish People’s Voting Reactions to Media Endorsements: Evidence from a survey experiment  
Globalization, Trade and Populism in Germany: Analyzing the Effects of Trade Exposure on Voting Behavior in the 2013 and 2017 German Federal Elections. 
Varieties 	of 	Capitalism 	revisited: 	Empirical 	Testing 	of 	Country 	Cluster Classifications and the Implications for Other Empirical Work  
Rebel Groups Turned Political Parties – Democratic Consolidation through Postwar Party System Institutionalization  
Improving Forecasting for Foreign Policy: Identifying drivers of accuracy in a forecasting tournament  
Does Political Instability Induce Election Violence? 


Geddes, Barbara.  2003. Paradigms and sand castles: Theory building and research design in comparative politics. University of Michigan Press. 
Strunk, William and E.B. White.  1999. The Elements of Style. Tissot; 4th edition • Kellstedt, Paul. M., & Whitten, Guy D. (2018). The fundamentals of political science research. Cambridge University Press.

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

