 Professor of… 	Strategy, Organization and Leadership  
  
I study organizations and have a PhD in Management with a specialization in strategy. My research lies at the nexus of societal challenges, institutions and organizing. In my work, I engage different disciplinary lenses such as economic sociology, sociology and development studies and focus on efforts in the civil society, business and public sector. Areas of supervision include topics such as social innovation, crossector partnership, organizing for (sustainable) development, impact investing, reorganizing social welfare, and efforts to make progress on a number of societal challenge such as modern slavery, homelessness, etc.  In my work, I also attempt to understanding how social inequalities are reproduced and how to break with persistent patterns of inequality in our daily lives.  
This academic year I particularly welcome students interested in  
New forms of participatory and open innovation to face COVID-19: we have seen a number of interesting experiments such as the German #Wirvsvirus hackathon + support program that try to reignite civic engagement and foster cross sector collaboration in order to develop ideas and solutions in times of crisis. Creative analytical approaches are particularly welcome and can be discussed. 
Homelessness will become a defining challenge for our societies In the next decade. We need comparative and diligent analysis of existing approaches to support policymaking on this topic. Potential thesis topics include a comparative analysis of different approaches to fight homelessness at the policy level but also at the intervention level involving civil society, philanthropic funding and pubic efforts. Suggestions for a more specific focus can be provided upon request. 
We all produce and reproduce social inequalities in old and new ways. Topics on this matter can focus on established categories of inequalities such as gender, race and social class, intersections of these  or newly arising categories of exclusion and inclusion. Also here the focus can be a societal or sectorial level of analysis.  
The theses I supervise can be based on quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods. I encourage students choosing quantitative methods to collaborate and make use of data science lab. 
 
I encourage team projects and across team interaction. The objective of the master thesis is to develop a piece of research that has practical and policy implications in an autonomous way. My role is to support this process and the sessions in our colloquium will provide a scaffold for you to make progress and meet deadlines.  
 
 
If you are interested in my work and how I approach research I recommend skimming 
https://oecd-opsi.org/moving-from-sprint-to-marathon-lessons-learned-from-the-germanwirvsvirus-hackathon-and-its-implementation-program/ 
Seelos, C. and Mair, J. 2017. Innovation and Scaling for Impact – How effective Social Enterprises do it.  Stanford University Press. 
Amis, J. M., Mair, J., and Munir, K. A. 2020. The Organizational Reproduction of Inequality. 
Academy of Management Annals, 14(1), 195-230. https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2017.0033. 
Mair, J. and Rathert, N. 2019. Alternative Organizing with Social Purpose: Revisiting Institutional Analysis of Market-Based Activity. Socio-Economic Review. Online First. https://doi.org/10.1093/ser/mwz031. 
Mair, J., Wolf, M., and Seelos, C. 2016. Scaffolding: A Process of Transforming Patterns of Inequality in Small-scale Societies. Academy of Management Journal, 59(6): 2021-2044. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2015.0725. 
Mair, J. 2020. Social Entrepreneurship: Research as Disciplined Exploration. In W.W. Powell and P. Bromley (Eds.), The Nonprofit Sector: A Research Handbook. Stanford University Press: Stanford: 333-357. 
Seelos C. and Mair, J. Innovation Is Not the Holy Grail. Stanford Social Innovation Review, Fall 2012: 45-49. 
 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

