 Professor of… 	Democracy Studies 
 
the Director of the European Research Centre for AntiCorruption and State-Building (ERCAS) at Hertie School of Governance. ERCAS is a centre of excellence in work on good governance. Her work is cited and applied by a string of development organizations for which she consults occasionally, such as the World Bank, UNDP, NORAD, DFID, OECD, but also by some EU governments and the European Commission. Alina was involved in the design of several good governance methodologies, most notably one to evaluate integrity in public universities published in Times Higher Education Supplement which is now promoted by UNESCO and is the designer of a new public integrity index (http://integrity-index.org/) launched by the EU Dutch Presidency in 
2016. In 2019 she was the recipient of the award Seymour Martin Lipset by the government of Canada, in the honor of the pioneering political development scholar and liberal individual thinker of the same name. Alina publishes with Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press and leading science publications such as Nature. 
For dissertations mixed designs are encouraged (quantitative research, followed by policy analysis) or systematic policy analysis, but we also like more ethnographic methods or process tracing. The Centre has its own relevant databases on governance, state-building and anti-corruption which we seek to enlarge through various forms of cooperation. We encourage client oriented work and will help you find a client if you do not already have one.  

People involved 
1.	, but other people in the team might also help, and the key person is the Database manager (Till Hartmann), as he has access to several quality of governance databases at country and individual level, as well as to some public accountability mechanisms databases. 
2.	A client from the policy world commissions your work. These ‘clients’ gave different degrees of commitment, but in our experience they help a lot promote the work and the researcher if they like the paper. 
 
Designs 
We only accept three standard designs, as basis for quality, and teaches the basics of each in the colloquium: 
- 	Policy research (a question which can be answered by more than just documentation; hypotheses, a research design, data collection; tests) 
- 	Policy analysis (a problem defined, problem causality researched, alternative options proposed and analyzed, so even if your interest is in one option, say, whistleblower legislation in a country, we want you to do a full PA and consider alternatives as well) 
- 	Policy evaluation (this is more of a research, and we generally structure it in two ways, before and after a policy intervention, or comparatively between cases with the intervention and cases without. Combinations are also possible) 
Further info 
-	The Centre has its own relevant databases on governance, state-building and anticorruption which we seek to enlarge through various forms of cooperation.  
-	We encourage client oriented work and will help you find a client if you do not already have one. Some of our clients actually pay for research, you will not get rich from that, but you will feel that your work for someone who really needs what you do. We are not involved in this, we only control the academic part. 
-	We encourage team work and capstones, as befits a policy school. The Transparency International projects, for instance, require teamwork. 
 

 
 
Successful theses are published as working papers with ERCAS and occasionally as journal articles when I edit special issues (especially capstones) See the WP collections on www.againstcorruption.eu (the only WP collection at Hertie) for splendid contributions of previous students (e.g. Schulz and Vargas). The NORAD report Contextual choices commissioned by the Norway govt was also a capstone- an many others. 
 

Project Title 	Practice Partner  
 
TOPIC ONE 
Social media, traditional media and public trust in Coronavirus times 
 
The trust in media has been undergoing important shifts. While traditional media has been losing trust and market share both, social media has risen to become a serious challenger. Trust in social media, however, varies greatly across countries, and so does the capacity of governments to regulate it. While capture of the traditional media has been the objects of some recent attention, the capture of social media is more recent but equally problematic. In the recent Corona crisis evidence has surfaced that social media can be used as a efficiently as a bacteriological weapon to promote conspiracy theories and civil disobedience. We have a brand new dataset from World Values Survey (special wave on the Coronavirus) which is open for analysis and includes relevant questions on trust in media as well as government. 	 
WORLD VALUES 
SURVEY TEAM 
 
TOPIC TWO  
 
Evidence-based anticorruption policies 
 
CIPE is developing novel methodology for the US government to allow a rapid response reaction on anti-corruption in targeted countries (which experience a change of situation with new opportunities) and is relying on ERCAS to provide the template. The steps are: 
1.	Research long term trends using the Index for Public Integrity components as in the www.againstcorruption.eu forecast.  
2.	Research ‘borderline’ countries where such interventions would have more impact (see positive and negative trends on the map on www.againstcorruption.eu) though process tracing and policy 	CENTER FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 
PRIVATE 
ENTERPRISE (CIPE), 
DC 

analysis (e.g. Brazil, Morocco, Armenia, Malta, Burkina Faso, Kenya, Nepal…) 
3. Research the difference between de facto and de jure (formal and informal) good governance institutions, for instance transparency, freedom of information, freedom of the press, whistleblower acts and engage in the policy analysis of implementation gaps. 	
 
TOPIC THREE 
Grassroots perception of corruption 
 
Any research question using the mega database of Global Corruption Barometer, which covers over 100 countries and has several waves. We encourage cross-sectional as well as time series research on the pooled database, on selected countries or just one country, at either the individual level or the macro level. 
Questionnaires are available online on TI’s GCB site and databases from ERCAS. If you like surveys, this is your opportunity. The survey covers the topics of corruption and trust in government. 	TRANSPARENCY 
INTERNATIONAL 
GLOBAL 
CORRUPTION 
BAROMETER 
TOPIC FOUR 
Integrity of public procurement 
 
While many micro indicators of corruption have emerged, especially from work on public procurement, an actionable comparative indicator is missing at macro level. The main goals of this research are: 1. Assessing the state of the art in using data on public procurement 2. Assessing the degree of accessibility, transparency and reliability of such data at the level of the EU and main trade partners; 3. Developing a risk indicators at the level of contracting authorities and companies using Opender.eu, the EU portal with 24 million open contracts  	UNODC RESEARCH 
UNIT 
 
TOPIC FIVE 
Public accountability tools and their enabling contexts 
 
The Public Accountability Mechanisms (PAM) Initiative at the World Bank provides assessments of countries’ in-law and inpractice efforts to enhance the transparency of public administration and the accountability of public officials. Several transparency and accountability mechanisms are studied: 
Financial Disclosure (income, assets and conflicts of interest), 
Conflict of Interest Restrictions, and Freedom of Information. 
ERCAS has updated the database for 35 countries at europam.eu. 	ERCAS 
 We look for researchers to study the association between instruments (for instance, freedom of information or procurement legislation) and outcomes/impact on practices (for instance reflected in procurement risk indicators). The databases are available from ERCAS (europam.eu for 35 countries; 
Opentender.eu; data also exists for non-EU countries like Mexico, Brazil, Colombia). 	
TOPIC SIX 
The Democratic Backslide 
 
Topics are encouraged on the causes of the democratic backslide and the varieties of populism, from Brazil to Hungary. We are interested in particular on the role of corruption and anticorruption, of social media and the global anti-elites sentiment. The methods encouraged are either process tracing of one country, or small n comparisons within subcontinental regions.  	---- 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

