Professor of… 	(Lecturer replacing the Professorship for) International Political Economy  

My focus over the past years have been international organizations (IOs), in particular the role of the international bureaucrats and international officials therein. This includes the complex relations between IO bureaucracies and state politicians, diplomats and bureaucrats. I have done field research on UN organizations in Geneva, New York, Brussels, Paris, and Amman/Jerusalem. In 2020, I am co-chairing the section “21st Century International Organizations” at ECPR General Conference, so my interest in this domain is very broad: 
https://ecpr.eu/Events/SectionDetails.aspx?SectionID=1004&EventID=156 
Before focusing on IOs more broadly, my main focus was on EU lobbying and EU secrecy/transparency, so I’m comfortable with a broad range of EU-related topics including for example theses focused on particular EU institutions and agencies. I have worked for the EU Office of Transparency International in Brussels for multiple years, so am familiar with Brussels and Luxembourg institutional and lobbying/advocacy dynamics also “on the ground”. 

General Global Governance 
International Bureaucracy (i.e. the administrations of international organizations) 
Financing and Resourcing of International Organizations, including in history (League of Nations, pre-WWI international unions) 
Global Refugee Policy, including Palestine Refugees 
European Union 
EU Lobbying & Interest Groups 
EU Secrecy & Transparency 
United Nations System 
Different UN system agencies (e.g. UN Secretariat, WHO, ILO, UNESCO, UNHCR, UNRWA, IOM, UN Women) as well as inter-agency dynamics 

Qualitative research 
-	expert interviews (e.g. in international organizations) 
-	archival/document research 
Quantitative reesarch 
Text-as-data, in particular sentiment analysis (very interested to supervise quantitative text analysis in general but other Hertie colleagues are specialized methods experts in this domain) 
Network analysis (methods used for my PhD thesis) 
Basic statistics (happy to supervise more complex statistics but am no expert) Open for mixed methods 

Combination of colloquium and individual/team meetings & retreat Happy to supervise teams (especially on topics proposed below) 

-	various MA and BA theses on EU lobbying 
-	various BA theses on EU and UNHCR funding or the emergence of the role of ICAN 


Panke, Diana (2018). Research design & method selection: making good choices in the social sciences. Sage. 



Project Title (only suggestions to show potential directions, projects can be qualitative, quantitative or mixed methods) 	Practice Partner (happy to discuss how to connect with academic, IO or NGO partners for these topics) 
Women, Peace and Security in UN Security Council Speeches (working qualitatively or quantitatively with this dataset: 
https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi :10.7910/DVN/KGVSYH)  	 
The SDGs and the Emergence of a New Language of 
Sustainable Development in the United Nations System (e.g. 
text-as-data approach, focus on gender-related aspects) 	 
EU Financing of UN (or other International) Agencies 	 
The Causes/Effects/Relevance of Large-Scale Donor Conferences for UN System Financing 	 
COVID19 and the Financing of International Organizations 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

