Professor of 	European Politics 


In the field of Comparative Politics, Christine Reh has a long-standing interest in the European Union’s institutions, politics and legitimacy. Hitherto, her work has been motivated by an interest in the informal politics and everyday negotiation behind constitutional, political and legislative decisions, and in their democratic implications. Christine’s current research explores the interplay between domestic politics and supranational governance in the EU’s increasingly contested multi- level system, with a particular focus on electoral politics and political parties. 


EU institutions, politics, policies and decision-making 
Europeanisation of EU member states 
Politicisation and contested governance (EU & global) 
Informal politics 
International negotiation 
Legitimate governance beyond the state. 



Qualitative (positivist; both deductive and inductive) 


Supervision will take place through 3 colloquia and 3 individual meetings. 
Colloquia are designed to introduce principles of research design and to provide room for group discussion and peer-to-peer feedback. 
One-on-one meetings allow for in-depth discussion of students’ research projects. 
Students will be set precise tasks and will be provided with detailed feedback on these tasks. 
Tasks set will take the form of written outlines and colloquium presentations. 
I will read and comment on written outlines but not on individual chapters or a full draft. 
I welcome students working individually or in teams. 



“Do Informal Governance Institutions Influence the EU? The Case of the G20 in Financial Regulation”. 
“Governance with the People: A Case Study of how the Dutch Climate Agreement Strengthens International Responsiveness”. 
“Using Multiple Arenas? National Parliamentary Scrutiny of EU External Trade Policy”. 



Brady, H.E. and D. Collier (eds.). (2010). Rethinking Social Inquiry: Diverse Tools, Shared Standards. 2nd ed. Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers. 
Geddes, B. (2003). Paradigms and Sand Castles: Theory Building and Research Design in Comparative Politics. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press (in particular Chapter 2). 
George, A.L. and A. Bennett (2005). Case Studies and Theory Development in the Social Sciences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
Halperin, S. and O. Heath (2016). Political Research: Methods and Practical Skills. 2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford UP. 
Mahoney, J. (2006). “A Tale of Two Cultures: Contrasting Quantitative and Qualitative Research”. Political Analysis 14(3): 227-249. Ill Seawright, J. and J. Gerring (2008). “Case Selection Techniques in Case Study Research: A Menu of Qualitative and Quantitative Options”. Political Research Quarterly 61(2): 294-308. 
Van Evera, S. (1997). Guide to Methods for Students of Political Science. Ithaca: Cornell UP. 
More concrete reading suggestions to follow, depending on the thematic profile of my advisees. 

 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021 	1 



 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021 	1 

