Professor of… 	Health Governance 

I am Professor of Health Governance at the Hertie School. I have a PhD in Health Economics from 
Frankfurt School of Finance and a Masters in International Health Management from Imperial College London. At the Hertie School I teach courses in Health economics and policy and inequality analysis in health and health finance. My research are in the field of health economics and management with a focus on health expenditures, hospital efficiency and competition, and health insurance. I also have a keen interest in policy issues related to international donor funding for diseases and health in developing countries. 

The topics I am interested in (but not limited to):  
health outcomes, social gradient in health, inequalities in health outcomes and finance, poverty and health, health expenditures, risky health behaviours, retirement and health  
governance questions on digital governance in health, technology adoption in hospitals, and innovation and regulation in pharmaceutical R&D  
policy evaluation – anything that can have potential health and well-being implications  
developing country issues such as external funding, gender violence, child and maternal mortality, vaccinations etc. 
hospital and physician competition, physician location decisions, physician gender pay gap 
projects using micro-level data such as German Socio-Economic Panel (or any other panel study), SHARE, IHDS, DHS etc.  

The World Bank 
The United Nations 
The International Monetary Fund  
The World Health Organization  
OECD statistics 
ClioInfra Project 
The Maddison Project 
NHS England 
UN Comtrade  
Other data sources:  
GESIS (https://dbk.gesis.org/dbksearch/index.asp?db=E)  
GSOEP (http://www.diw.de/de/soep) 
SHARE (http://www.share-project.org/) 
IHDS, India (https://www.ihds.umd.edu/)  
DHS (https://dhsprogram.com/) 
UK Data archive (http://data-archive.ac.uk/)  
Health and retirement study, USA  
You can check if the data that best suits your research question is available online or not. We can also set up a meeting to discuss relevant data needs.  

I am an applied micro economist and primarily work with quantitative methods. However, I am open to discussing interesting projects that involve qualitative methods. 


Retirement and Political inclination in Europe: Evidence from the SHARE survey.  
External price regulation and pharmaceutical research and development: Evidence from big pharma.  
Patient Reported Outcomes Measurements in Use - by comparing Austria and the United Kingdom.  
National eHealth strategies in Austria and across Europe - best practices and risks.  
Energy consumption of the auto industry and health outcomes.  
Arzneimittelregulierung in Europa - die Effekte von Reference Pricing.  
Out-of-pocket payments in healthcare: What are they? Why are they used? How do they affect healthcare systems?  
Influence of the EU GDPR on Healthcare Providers in Austria  
Is Uganda’s 2015/6 – 2024/5 Health Financing Strategy Achieving its Main Objective of Attaining Universal Health Coverage? 
Public policies on sexual and reproductive health: a case study of obstetric violence in 
Peru 
OFF-LABEL USE OF MEDICINES: A COMPARATIVE STUDY ON DRUG REGULATIONS IN BRAZIL AND SELECTED EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES 
The Marriage between Urban Policy and Urban Health in India 


Determinants of International Pharmaceutical trade  Data: UN Comtrade Database 	 
The effect of retirement on cognition  
Data: Health and retirement Survey, GSOEP 	 
Inequality in infant mortality in developing countries  Data: Demographic health survey 	 
Maternity leave duration and risky health behaviour  Data: SHARE survey, GSOEP 	 
Health and political inclination in Europe  Data: SHARE survey 	 
Physician gender pay gap 
Data: TBD 	 


	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 



	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

