Professor of… 	Macroeconomics and Sustainability 


Labor economics 
•	Social and psychological foundations of macroeconomics • 	Global economic policy 
I am a senior professor of economics at the Hertie School, a Senior Research Fellow at the Blavatnik School in Oxford, and President of the Global Solutions Initiative Foundation at the Hertie School. I am also a Non-resident Fellow of the Brookings Foundation in Washington, D.C. 
Research interests  
My research interests cover global economic problems, global governance, social foundations of economics, psychological underpinnings of economic decisions, labor economics, the inflationunemployment tradeoff, fiscal policy and welfare state reform.  



Digital policy 
Labor market policy 
Welfare state reform 
The inflation-unemployment trade-off 
The macroeconomics of cooperation versus competition 
Recoupling economic and social progress 
From 2004 to February 2019, I was President of the Kiel Institute for the World Economy. I am also Fellow of the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR) in London, Fellow of the Institute of Labor Economics (IZA) in Bonn, and Visiting Professor of University College London.  
I have advised numerous governments on labor market policy and welfare state reform. The Global Solutions Initiative advises the G20.  


Mathematical economic theory 
Economic and social surveys 
• 
Indexes of wellbeing 


The supervision is primarily by colloquium, though individual meetings are possible on request.  The supervision is planned to be given online.  



Work in a warming climate: A spatial analysis of climate change impacts on jobs and industries in Australia 

A Guide for the Middleweights:  The Comprehensive Inclusion for Cities Index and Evaluations for Inclusive Policymaking  

An alternative to Shareholder-value maximization Comparing shareholder-value maximizing companies and Cooperatives regarding their CEO-to-Worker-compensation ratios from 1997 to 2018 

Geo-economics in post-Soviet Eurasia 


Dashboard of Wellbeing 	 
Economic Policy Responses to the Covid-19 Crisis 	 
Digital Policy in Response to Problems of Surveillance Capitalism 	 


	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 



	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

