Professor of … 	Digital Governance 

Danie Stockmann is Professor of Digital Governance. Her research covers digital governance, media, public opinion, participation, public diplomacy, Chinese politics and media, and governance of developing and transitional states. Her current research focuses on the impact of digitalization and its challenges for policymakers and citizens. Her most recent research project, funded by a Starting Grant of the European Research Council, explores the impact of technological design of social media platforms on user behavior regarding politics. She also works with A. Iain Johnston (Harvard University) on a project about the link between public opinion and foreign policy-making. In her work she applies a mixed methods approach, ranging from qualitative interviews, qualitative and computer-aided content analysis, experiments, surveys, and cross-country data collection to computational social science. 


Digital Governance 
Media Governance 
Policymaking in Non-democracies 
Role of Non-OECD Countries, especially China 
Public Opinion and Foreign Policy-making 

Qualitative Interviews 
Experiments 
Content Analysis 
Online Surveys 


Self-regulating internet platforms: Political and policy dynamics that shaped the EU Code of Practice on Disinformation  
Waking up the Dragon:  Germany's development policy in Africa in the face of increased Chinese engagement  
Internet Controls in a non-authoritarian context: Anatomy of Internet Shutdowns in India  
The Problem of Fake News on Facebook: An Analysis of Policy Options in the German 
Context  
Confronting Hate: Understanding Hate Speech and its Relevance for Professional Communication in Germany and Austria  
Same Task, Different Logic: Networked Protest and Social Mobilization in Black Lives Matter 
True Believers Online: Framing Analysis of Salafist Facebook Pages in Germany  
Germany’s Artificial Intelligence Strategy Challenges in the Strategy Development Process  
Bringing Mobility in Germany into the Digital Age: Commercial On-Demand Ride Services and a Reform of the Passenger Transport Act (PBEFG)  
Community Building in ASEAN: Cultivating Greater Participation and Ownership of ASEAN Identity Amongst South east Asian Youth 
Land Policy in German Development Cooperation: Strategies Towards the Sustainability Paradigm  
Battle for Harmony: China’s rising public diplomacy efforts in Africa  


The following texts are general readings materials relevant for all of my advisees: 
Geddes, Barbara. 2003. Paradigms and Sand Castles: Theory Building and Research Design in Comparative Politics. Michigan: Michigan University Press. 
Manheim, Jarol B., Richard C. rich, Lars Willnat, Craig Leonard Brians. 2008. Empirical Political Analysis: Quantitative and Qualitative Research Methods. New Yorf: Pearson. 


Processes and Consequences of Digital Governance In recent years, governments increasingly turn to restrictive policy measures to govern the Digital. These policies often lack empirical information and well-grounded understandings of the processes feeding into decision-making and/or the potential consequences of proposed policies. Pick a policy initiative and examine how policy-makers, companies, and society interacted during the policy-making phase or evaluate its impact. For example, you could pick initiatives at the EU level, like the Digital Services Act or the German Network Enforcement Act, passed with the objective to fight hate speech and fake news. Feel free to check out the website I have created with students at www.digitalservicesact.eu  

New Media and Democracy The adoption of market mechanisms and new technologies in media around the world have brought about tremendous changes in government, business, research, and many other areas of everyday life. Do changes in the media landscape serve as an avenue for citizen empowerment and participation or increases government and corporate control over information? This is a fairly broad theme, of course. Narrow down your focus by thinking about specific changes in media and technology, events, problems often associated with new media, regional settings, or policy areas. 	 
Rise of Authoritarianism We are currently witnessing a wave of authoritarianism across the world. What are the underlying causes, potential risks and how should we deal with them? Pick a specific issue associated with authoritarianism, such as changes to institutions, civil liberties, polarization, populism, or public support for right-wing politicians, among others. Research can focus on established democracies, transitional states, or authoritarian states that are strengthening control. 	 
Public Opinion and Foreign Policy-making In the US and Europe much research has found that public preferences do not figure much into foreign policy-making. In China and other countries, however, public opinion is considered to play a strong role. What is the role of public opinion in foreign policy-making? Are there differences across countries and if so, why? How do politicians learn about public preferences in countries that manipulate elections and restrict public participation? 	 
Anything Related to Chinese Politics or Media. I have been doing research in China since 1997. You do not need to know Chinese in order to write a thesis about China. You are welcome to work with online surveys and qualitative interviews my team collected on political ideology and online 
political identities as well as users of the Twitter-like Weibo and the Whatsapplike Wechat. Data from my prior work is available via 	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

	 

	 	 	MIA/MPP - Supervision Plan AY2020/2021        1 

